The files contain an encoding for the vehicle routing problem (VRP) and the extensions with time windows (VRPTW) and site dependent VRPTW (SDVRPTW).

The vehicle routing problem is defined slightly different depending on the source.
Generally the VRP is defined as a graph where the first node (usually node 0) is defined as the depot and a set of n vehicles.
A solution is a set of routes, each starting and ending at node 0. The number of routes as less than or equal to n.

The VRP contains some extra constraints that limit the possible solutions or make it an optimization problem, the following options occur in some, but not all definitions:
- The graph is complete and every non-complete graph is completed before solving. Besides other things, this allows the constraint, that every node can only be visited once.
- Each edge is associated with a weight and the goal is to find a solution with minimal weight.
- There is a capacity for each vehicle, limiting the amount of nodes that can be visited by a vehicle.
- There is a service time for each node and a duration for each edge. The sum must not exceed a defined bound.

Here we use the following definition, taken from http://neo.lcc.uma.es/vrp/vehicle-routing-problem/
The graph is assumed to be incomplete and directed. Each edge has a weight and the goal is to find a minimal solution. Additionally each edge and node has an associated time it takes for a vehicle to pass and the total time is limited by a treshold.
Nodes can be used more than once (e.g. to reach leafs), and by different vehicles, but may only be services once by one vehicle.


Time window extensions
For time windows constraints, the following definitions are added:
- Each edge has a time it takes to travel using it.
- Each node has a service time, i.e. the time it takes a vehicle if it services this node
- Each node has a time window associated with it, a vehicle cannot service a node outside of this time window
Definition according to: "Site dependent vehicle routing problem with soft time window Modeling and solution approach" - Esmat Zare-Reisabadi, S. Hamid Mirmohammadi (2014)


Site depency
For site dependency, for each node a list of allowed vehicles is defined, other vehicles may not service this node.
Definition according to "Pricing strategies for the site-dependent vehicle routing problem" - Silvia Schwarze (2015)


Predicates
Instance encoding
vehicle(v) - Defines that v is a vehicle
node(x) - Defines that x is a node, implicitely defined by cost(...)
edge(x,y) - Defines there exists an edge from x to y, implicitely defined by cost (...)
cost(x,y,c) - Defines the cost to use the edge from x -> y.
duration(x,y,t) - Defines the time it takes to travel from x->y
serviceTime(x,t) - Defines how long it takes to service node x-
available(x,t) - Defines that x can be services at time t (Time window extension)
maybeServices(x,v) - Defines that x can be serviced by vehicle v (site dependency encoding)

Problem encoding output:
route(x,y,v) - vehicle uses arc x,y for (one if its) routes
services(x,v) - vehicle v services node x

Intermediate predicates
reached(x) - Used to check if all nodes are reached by a vehicle
connected(x,v) - Used to check that x is on a connected tour of vehicle v
reachedAt(x,t) - Used to check the time window constraints for the TW extension. Signifies that node x has been reached at time t

For the test instances, there is a sketch of the graph. In the sketch costs are black and time durations are in color.
